README.md, before:

# Why ?

requestTracker allows you to :
* know the time your real users spend on some strategical HTTP requests.
* know when the user really starts to see important areas of the page

That's useful for :
* determine the browser time to first paint
* know when your tracking beacon is really executed (aka, how much users your marketing team misses)
* know when important images are finally downloaded (aka, when is this images slideshow really seen)
* know when your styled text is readable, by checking the Font download time

# How ?

Using the [Performance timeline API](http://www.w3.org/TR/performance-timeline/) to retrieve HTTP requests from the browser. Information given in the callback are a merge of [PerformanceEntry](http://www.w3.org/TR/performance-timeline/#sec-PerformanceEntry-interface) and [PerformanceResourceTiming](http://www.w3.org/TR/resource-timing/#performanceresourcetiming).

The information are retrieved every few seconds, at DOM ready and when the page is loaded.

For Time to First Paint, we are using two non-standard methods :
* [performance.timing.msFirstPaint](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ie/ff974719(v=vs.85).aspx) (IE9 +)
* chrome.loadTimes().firstPaintTime (Chrome)

# Compatibility

[Compatible](http://caniuse.com/#feat=resource-timing) with more than 70% of your users, enough to have realistic data :
* IE10 and Edge (mobile included)
* Firefox (mobile included)
* Chrome (mobile included) and Opera
* Some versons of the android stock browser

On incompatible browsers, that simply does nothing.

# Test

For a demo or to test on your browsers, point to ```demo/index.html``` on localhost (not from disk). If you have NodeJS, run ```npm install``` then ```npm test``` to have a static server mounted on http://localhost:2888/demo.html and open the browser on it (MacOS).

# Usage

## Installation

Include ```measuretime.js``` in your page. It will expose three methods :
* ```WPERF.analyzeEntries( RegExp|String , callback)```
* ```WPERF.startResourceMonitoring( RegExp|String , callback)```
* ```WPERF.stopResourceMonitoring()```

NPM user ? Do this : ```npm install https://github.com/jpvincent/requestTracker/archive/v2.0.0.tar.gz --save```, then the file is in ```node_modules/request-tracker/measuretime.js```.

## Examples

Wait for the onload event and know when a certain request has finally arrived.

```javascript
WPERF.analyzeEntries(
	/main-content\.png/, // give a RegexP object or a string
	function(timingsCollection){ // receive a collection of PerformanceTiming PerformanceResourceTiming objects
		console.log(
			timingsCollection[0].name,
			' arrived after ',
			timingsCollection[0].responseEnd, ' ms'
		);
	});
```

You know that most of your visitors dont wait for the onload event, so we provide a way to monitor the requests. Eg: Monitor when the main homepage image finally arrives, this time

```javascript
WPERF.startResourceMonitoring(
	'http://my-host.fr/static/main-content.png', // if a String, must be the exact location
	function(timingsCollection){
		console.log(
			timingsCollection[0].name,
			' arrived after ',
			timingsCollection[0].responseEnd, ' ms'
		);
		WPERF.stopResourceMonitoring();
	});
```

Don't like the idea of infinite loops running in the browser ? When there is nothing left to monitor, we stop resource monitoring anyway but you can stop monitoring manually, say after onload.

```javascript
window.addEventListener('load', WPERF.stopResourceMonitoring, false);
```

On Chrome and IE9+, get the number of milliseconds between the page request and first pixels displayed by using ```WPERF.getFirstPaintTime(callback)```. You can then use this number to send it to Google Analytics like that :

```javascript
WPERF.getFirstPaintTime(function(firstPaintTime) {
	ga('send', 'timing', 'Global figures', 'Time to paint first pixels', firstPaintTime)
})
```


# What to do with those numbers ?

```measuretime.js``` get the HTTP request details : where to send those informations ?
```tracktime.js``` is the other script I use by my customers from RUM (Hi, I'm webperf freelancer, why not [hire me](mailto:jp@braincracking.fr)?). It sends the performance details to a visualization and storage backend, like [Google Analytics User Timings](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/user-timings) or [Basilic](http://basilic.io/).

It provides the ```trackTime()``` method, with the following arguments and defaults values

```javascript
trackTime({
  category = 'Global', // {string} in GA, the category name
  subcategory = '', // {string} in GA, the variable
  timing = 0, // {number}, milliseconds  = performance.now() by default
  label = '-', // {string} very optional, allows for more details in the tracking (like the name of the resource tracked)
  probability = 10, // {number}, percentage, between 0 and 100  = will limit the number of reports sent back to your backend
  once = true // {boolean}: set to false if you want to allow tracking multiple time the same triplet (cat/subcat/label)
})
```

Now you can send the time to first paint value to your backend :

```javascript
WPERF.getFirstPaintTime(function(firstPaintTime) {
	WPERF.trackTime({
		  category:'Global figures',
		 	subcategory:'Time to paint first pixels', 
		 	timing: firstPaintTime
	})
})
```

Say you want to know when you users see a styled text, you can monitor the font file and grah times with your backend:

```javascript
WPERF.startResourceMonitoring(
	/myfont\.woff/,
	function(timingCollection) {
    WPERF.trackTime({
      category: 'Page Load',
      subcategory: 'Main font file',
      label: timingCollection[0].name,
      timing: timingCollection[0].responseEnd
    })
  }
)
```

If you do not provide the ```timing``` argument, we use ```performance.now()```: that is the time since the page has been requested. Additionally we use the standard method ```performance.mark()``` who can be catched by powerful tools like WebPageTest.

Say you have a JS video player that provides you an event when the preroll ads starts, you can monitor that simply :

```javascript
player.addEventListener('ad_start', function(event) {
  WPERF.trackTime({
    category: 'Video',
    subcategory: 'Preroll ads start'
  })
})
```

You can know when your logo becomes visible, with simply HTML :

```html
 <img src="our-proud-logo.svg" onload="WPERF.trackTime(
        { category: 'Navigation',
          subcategory: 'Logo loaded',
          label: this.src
        })"
  />
```

Commit message:

Use Performance Observer, if browser supported

README.md, after:

# Why ?

requestTracker allows you to :
* know the time your real users spend on some strategical HTTP requests.
* know when the user really starts to see important areas of the page

That's useful for :
* determine the browser time to first paint
* know when your tracking beacon is really executed (aka, how much users your marketing team misses)
* know when important images are finally downloaded (aka, when is this images slideshow really seen)
* know when your styled text is readable, by checking the Font download time

# How ?

Using the [Performance timeline API](http://www.w3.org/TR/performance-timeline/) to retrieve HTTP requests from the browser. Information given in the callback are a merge of [PerformanceEntry](http://www.w3.org/TR/performance-timeline/#sec-PerformanceEntry-interface) and [PerformanceResourceTiming](http://www.w3.org/TR/resource-timing/#performanceresourcetiming).

If the browser does not support the [Performance Observer API](https://w3c.github.io/performance-timeline/#dom-performanceobserver) that allows to be warned every time a request has landed, the fallback is to retrieve the HTTP timeline every few seconds, at DOM ready and when the page is loaded.

For Time to First Paint, we are using two non-standard methods :
* [performance.timing.msFirstPaint](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ie/ff974719(v=vs.85).aspx) (IE9 +)
* chrome.loadTimes().firstPaintTime (Chrome)

# Compatibility

[Compatible](http://caniuse.com/#feat=resource-timing) with more than 70% of your users, enough to have realistic data :
* IE10 and Edge (mobile included)
* Firefox (mobile included)
* Chrome (mobile included) and Opera
* Some versons of the android stock browser

On incompatible browsers, that simply does nothing.

# Test

For a demo or to test on your browsers, point to ```demo/index.html``` on localhost (not from disk). If you have NodeJS, run ```npm install``` then ```npm test``` to have a static server mounted on http://localhost:2888/demo.html and open the browser on it (MacOS).

# Usage

## Installation

Include ```measuretime.js``` in your page. It will expose three methods :
* ```WPERF.analyzeEntries( RegExp|String , callback)```
* ```WPERF.startResourceMonitoring( RegExp|String , callback)```
* ```WPERF.stopResourceMonitoring()```

NPM user ? Do this : ```npm install https://github.com/jpvincent/requestTracker/archive/v2.0.0.tar.gz --save```, then the file is in ```node_modules/request-tracker/measuretime.js```.

## Examples

Wait for the onload event and know when a certain request has finally arrived.

```javascript
WPERF.analyzeEntries(
	/main-content\.png/, // give a RegexP object or a string
	function(timingsCollection){ // receive a collection of PerformanceTiming PerformanceResourceTiming objects
		console.log(
			timingsCollection[0].name,
			' arrived after ',
			timingsCollection[0].responseEnd, ' ms'
		);
	});
```

You know that most of your visitors dont wait for the onload event, so we provide a way to monitor the requests. Eg: Monitor when the main homepage image finally arrives, this time

```javascript
WPERF.startResourceMonitoring(
	'http://my-host.fr/static/main-content.png', // if a String, must be the exact location
	function(timingsCollection){
		console.log(
			timingsCollection[0].name,
			' arrived after ',
			timingsCollection[0].responseEnd, ' ms'
		);
		WPERF.stopResourceMonitoring();
	});
```

Don't like the idea of infinite loops running in the browser ? When there is nothing left to monitor, we stop resource monitoring anyway but you can stop monitoring manually, say after onload.

```javascript
window.addEventListener('load', WPERF.stopResourceMonitoring, false);
```

On Chrome and IE9+, get the number of milliseconds between the page request and first pixels displayed by using ```WPERF.getFirstPaintTime(callback)```. You can then use this number to send it to Google Analytics like that :

```javascript
WPERF.getFirstPaintTime(function(firstPaintTime) {
	ga('send', 'timing', 'Global figures', 'Time to paint first pixels', firstPaintTime)
})
```


# What to do with those numbers ?

```measuretime.js``` get the HTTP request details : where to send those informations ?
```tracktime.js``` is the other script I use by my customers from RUM (Hi, I'm webperf freelancer, why not [hire me](mailto:jp@braincracking.fr)?). It sends the performance details to a visualization and storage backend, like [Google Analytics User Timings](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/user-timings) or [Basilic](http://basilic.io/).

It provides the ```trackTime()``` method, with the following arguments and defaults values

```javascript
trackTime({
  category = 'Global', // {string} in GA, the category name
  subcategory = '', // {string} in GA, the variable
  timing = 0, // {number}, milliseconds  = performance.now() by default
  label = '-', // {string} very optional, allows for more details in the tracking (like the name of the resource tracked)
  probability = 10, // {number}, percentage, between 0 and 100  = will limit the number of reports sent back to your backend
  once = true // {boolean}: set to false if you want to allow tracking multiple time the same triplet (cat/subcat/label)
})
```

Now you can send the time to first paint value to your backend :

```javascript
WPERF.getFirstPaintTime(function(firstPaintTime) {
	WPERF.trackTime({
		  category:'Global figures',
		 	subcategory:'Time to paint first pixels', 
		 	timing: firstPaintTime
	})
})
```

Say you want to know when you users see a styled text, you can monitor the font file and grah times with your backend:

```javascript
WPERF.startResourceMonitoring(
	/myfont\.woff/,
	function(timingCollection) {
    WPERF.trackTime({
      category: 'Page Load',
      subcategory: 'Main font file',
      label: timingCollection[0].name,
      timing: timingCollection[0].responseEnd
    })
  }
)
```

If you do not provide the ```timing``` argument, we use ```performance.now()```: that is the time since the page has been requested. Additionally we use the standard method ```performance.mark()``` who can be catched by powerful tools like WebPageTest.

Say you have a JS video player that provides you an event when the preroll ads starts, you can monitor that simply :

```javascript
player.addEventListener('ad_start', function(event) {
  WPERF.trackTime({
    category: 'Video',
    subcategory: 'Preroll ads start'
  })
})
```

You can know when your logo becomes visible, with simply HTML :

```html
 <img src="our-proud-logo.svg" onload="WPERF.trackTime(
        { category: 'Navigation',
          subcategory: 'Logo loaded',
          label: this.src
        })"
  />
```
